---
title: "Web Extensions"
---

# Logistics

## Today

- Anatomy of a web extension
- Chrome APIs
- Demo: Developing extensions in Chrome
- Break!
- Intro MP1 and brainstorming
- Work time

# Anatomy of a web extension

## Web Extension components

- `manifest.json` - _required_
- Content script - inject logic into the page
- Options page - enables customization of the extension
- Toolbar icon - displayed in the browser toolbar
- UI elements - such as a popup
- Service worker - the extension's event handler

## `manifest.json`

Required file that provides important information about the extension

```json
{
  // Required
  "manifest_version": 3,
  "name": "My Extension",
  "version": "1.0.1",

  // Recommended
  "action": {...},
  "default_locale": "en",
  "description": "A plain text description",
  "icons": {...},

  // everything else optional
}
```

## UI elements

- An action click event.
- A popup.
- A context menu.
- An omnibox.
- A keyboard shortcut.
- Desktop notifications.
- Text-to-speech.
- A custom UI injected into a page.

## Content Scripts

- read and modify the content of a page
- live in an isolated world
- can be injected only on certain urls

## Options page

- enables customization of the extension

# Chrome APIS

## There are many APIs available to you!

[Read the docs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/)

## Useful APIs

<ul>
  <li class="fragment"><code>action</code> - control the icon in the toolbar</li>
  <li class="fragment"><code>bookmarks</code>- create, organize, and manipulate bookmarks</li>
  <li class="fragment"><code>commands</code> - create keyboard shortcuts that trigger actions in your extension</li>
  <li class="fragment"><code>contextMenus</code> - add items to Chrome's context menu</li>
  <li class="fragment"><code>desktopCapture</code> - capture content of screen, windows, or tabs</li>
  <li class="fragment"><code>history</code> - interact with the history of visited pages</li>
  <li class="fragment"><code>notifications</code> - create rich notifications that can be displayed in the
    system tray</li>
  <li class="fragment"><code>storage</code> - store data across sessions</li>
  <li class="fragment"><code>tabs</code> - interact with the tab system</li>
</ul>

# Demo: running extensions in Chrome

# Break!

# Introducing MP1

## MP1 Process

<ol>
  <li class="fragment">Think of what you want to make.</li>
  <li class="fragment">Scope it down to the <em>simplest working version</em></li>
  <li class="fragment">Figure out how to make it.</li>
</ol>

<span class="fragment pink"><b>Ask questions.</b></span>
<span class="fragment">Consult the resource docs.</span>

## MP1 Process

<span class="fragment">Super basic thing that is functional:</span>
<span class="fragment green">**Yes!!**</span>

<span class="fragment">Complex thing that has never worked:</span>
<span class="fragment red">**No!!**</span>

## Your Goal

<div class="big-emph">Always have a version that works,</div>
<div class="fragment">even if it seems simple or uninteresting.</div>

## Brainstorming

<p class="left"> In groups, take ten minutes to brainstorm ideas. Here are some to get you
started:
</p>

<div class="twocol">
  <div class="left">
  - tab group saver
  - meme or gif saver
  - random rick rolls
  - bookmarks manager
  </div>
  <div class="left">
  - eye strain alert
  - ascii art keeper
  - easy-copy emojis
  - site blocker
  </div>
</div>

<span class="fragment pink">silly ideas encouraged!</span>

## Share back

## Simplify!

# Work time!
