# Week 2: JavaScript and the DOM

1/10/23

## Logistics

### Today

- Show-off session (volunteers?)
- Share-back time
- Check-in survey
- Break
- JavaScript intro
- JavaScript activity
- Work time!

### Hair-Tear Shares

- First one is due Jan 17, a week from today

## MP1

### MP1: Browser extension

For the next two weeks, you will be working on MP1. Instead of me giving you a
bunch of JS to memorize, we are going to do the project the way you might on
your own.

### MP1 steps

1. Think of what you want to make.
2. Figure out how to make it.

### Uncomfortable?

That is OK!

Remember: _you are not graded on your code_.

## Javascript

### What is Javascript?

### Javascript is not Java!

### Brief History

### Why Use Javascript?

Why might we want to use JavaScript?

### Why use JavaScript?

- Store useful values inside variables
- Generate content that can be displayed on your page
- Run code in response to certain events occurring on a web page
- Interact with Browser and Third-Party APIs

### Why use JavaScript?

JavaScript is the _common interface_ that between your personal page, the
browser, and other libraries and frameworks.

## Common Terms

### Interpreted vs compiled

JavaScript is _interpreted_

### Server-side vs Client-side

Client-side code is code that is run on the user's computer

Server-side code is run on the server.

### Server-side vs Client-side

JavaScript can be either client-side or server-side.

### Dynamic vs Static

## Adding JavaScript to your page

### Internal: In a script tag!

```html
<script>
  console.log("Hello world!");
</script>
```

Example: https://codepen.io/branchwelder/pen/abjJNmw

### External: In another file!

`index.html`:

```html
<script src="script.js" defer></script>
```

`index.js`:

```js
console.log("Hello World!");
```

### Loading your script properly

We need to make sure that our JavaScript is loaded in the correct order.

HTML on a page is loaded in the order in which it appears.

If your JavaScript is loaded and parsed before the HTML it is trying to access,
your code won't work!

### `async` and `defer`

## A quick tour of JavaScript

[https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/javascript/](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/javascript/)

### Comments

Single line comment:

```js
// I am a comment
```

Multi-line comment:

```js
/*
  I am also
  a comment
*/
```

### Data Types

Seven primitive data types:

- `number` for numbers of any kind: integer or floating-point, integers are
  limited by ±(253-1).
- `bigint` for integer numbers of arbitrary length.
- `string` for strings. A string may have zero or more characters, there’s no
  separate single-character type.
- `boolean` for true/false.
- `null` for unknown values – a standalone type that has a single value null.
- `undefined` for unassigned values – a standalone type that has a single value
  undefined.
- `symbol` for unique identifiers.

And one non-primitive data type:

- `object` for more complex data structures.

### Strings

```js
let str = "Hello";
let str2 = "Single quotes are ok too";
let phrase = `can embed another ${str}`;
```

### Booleans

```js
let nameFieldChecked = true; // yes, name field is checked
let ageFieldChecked = false; // no, age field is not checked
```

### Booleans

```js
let isGreater = 4 > 1;

alert(isGreater); // true (the comparison result is "yes")
```

### `null`

A special value which represents “nothing”, “empty” or “value unknown”.

```js
let age = null;
```

### `undefined`

```js
let age;

alert(age); // shows "undefined"
```

### Arrays

An _ordered_ collection of elements,

```js
const a = [];
const a = Array();
```

### Arrays

```js
const a = [1, 2, 3];
const a = Array.of(1, 2, 3);
```

### Arrays

Arrays can hold any value, even values of different types:

```js
const a = [1, "Flavio", ["a", "b"]];
```

### Arrays

This means we can create _multi-dimensional_ arrays:

```js
const matrix = [
  [1, 2, 3],
  [4, 5, 6],
  [7, 8, 9],
];

matrix[0][0]; // 1
matrix[2][0]; // 7
```

<!-- ## Building your sites from JavaScript

### Why?

You may have noticed that building HTML files manual is tedious!

## Manipulating the DOM

## JSON

### What is JSON?

JSON === JavaScript Object Notation

### What is JSON?

- _A lightweight data interchange format._

### What is JSON?

- _A lightweight data interchange format._
- Based on a subset of JavaScript
- _Human readable_: Easy to read and write
- Typically used to store and send information between a client and a server
- Can be used with almost all modern programming languages

### Remembering the JSON-valid data types

**BASONN**

- Booleans
- Arrays
- Strings
- Objects
- Numbers
- Null

BASONN, rhymes with JSON. -->
