# Extensions!

## Anatomy of an extension

- `manifest.json` - _required_
- Toolbar icon
- Service worker - the extension's event handler
- UI elements
- Content script - inject logic into the page
- Options page - enables customization of the extension

### `manifest.json`

Required file that provides important information about the extension

```json
{
  // Required
  "manifest_version": 3,
  "name": "My Extension",
  "version": "1.0.1",

  // Recommended
  "action": {...},
  "default_locale": "en",
  "description": "A plain text description",
  "icons": {...},

  // everything else optional
}
```

### Toolbar icon

### Service worker

### UI elements

- An action click event.
- A popup.
- A context menu.
- An omnibox.
- A keyboard shortcut.
- Desktop notifications.
- Text-to-speech.
- A custom UI injected into a page.

### Content Scripts

- read and modify the content of a page
- live in an isolated world
- can be injected only on certain urls

### Options page

- enables customization of the extension

## Chrome APIS

### There are any APIs available to you!

- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/

### Useful APIs

- action - control the icon in the toolbar
- bookmarks - create, organize, and manipulate bookmarks
- commands - create keyboard shortcuts that trigger actions in your extension
- contextMenus - add items to Chrome's context menu
- desktopCapture - capture content of screen, windows, or tabs
- history - interact with the history of visited pages
- notifications - create rich notifications that can be displayed in the system
  tray
- storage - store data across sessions
- tabs - interact with the tab system
