resources/git.md, before:

# Git and GitHub

**_What is Git?_** Git is a free and open source distributed version control
system.[^git] In other words, Git is a tool that helps you manage your source
code history. You will only need to use basic Git functionality for this course,
but Git is an incredibly powerful tool, especially when it comes to
collaboration.

**_What is GitHub?_** GitHub is a collaboration platform that uses Git for
versioning. GitHub is a popular place to share and contribute to open-source
software. Other collaboration platforms include [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/),
[Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/), and
[SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/).

**_What is a repository?_** A repository is a project containing files and
folders. A repository tracks versions of files and folders.

## The basic Git workflow

The basic Git workflow goes something like this[^workflow]:

- You modify files in your working tree.

- You selectively stage just those changes you want to be part of your next
  commit, which adds only those changes to the staging area.

- You do a commit, which takes the files as they are in the staging area and
  stores that snapshot permanently to your Git directory.

## Tutorials

- [Introduction to GitHub](https://github.com/skills/introduction-to-github)
- [Creating a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo)

## Games

- [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)
- [Oh My Git](https://ohmygit.org/)

## Reference

- [Github Docs](https://docs.github.com/en)
- [GitHub Term Glossary](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-glossary)
- [Git Cheatsheet](https://training.github.com/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet/)
- [Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) - Comprehensive book on Git fully
  available online

[^git]: https://git-scm.com/
[^workflow]: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-What-is-Git%3F

Commit message:

Add link to Github CLI Docs

resources/git.md, after:

# Git and GitHub

**_What is Git?_** Git is a free and open source distributed version control
system.[^git] In other words, Git is a tool that helps you manage your source
code history. You will only need to use basic Git functionality for this course,
but Git is an incredibly powerful tool, especially when it comes to
collaboration.

**_What is GitHub?_** GitHub is a collaboration platform that uses Git for
versioning. GitHub is a popular place to share and contribute to open-source
software. Other collaboration platforms include [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/),
[Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/), and
[SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/).

**_What is a repository?_** A repository is a project containing files and
folders. A repository tracks versions of files and folders.

## The basic Git workflow

The basic Git workflow goes something like this[^workflow]:

- You modify files in your working tree.

- You selectively stage just those changes you want to be part of your next
  commit, which adds only those changes to the staging area.

- You do a commit, which takes the files as they are in the staging area and
  stores that snapshot permanently to your Git directory.

## Tutorials

- [Introduction to GitHub](https://github.com/skills/introduction-to-github)
- [Creating a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo)

## Games

- [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)
- [Oh My Git](https://ohmygit.org/)

## Reference

- [Github CLI Manual](https://cli.github.com/manual/) - the GitHub CLI can be
  useful if you are having trouble with authentication
- [Github Docs](https://docs.github.com/en)
- [GitHub Term Glossary](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-glossary)
- [Git Cheatsheet](https://training.github.com/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet/)
- [Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) - Comprehensive book on Git fully
  available online

[^git]: https://git-scm.com/
[^workflow]: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-What-is-Git%3F
