resources/javascript.md, before:

# JavaScript

**_What is JavaScript?_** JavaScript is a programming language.

## Start Here

[The MDN Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/What_is_JavaScript)
has a good intro to JavaScript

## Resources

- [Learn X in Y Minutes (JS)](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/javascript/)
- [JavaScript Handbook](https://thevalleyofcode.com/js/)

## Books

- JavaScript: The Definitive Guide by David Flanagan
- Javascript: The Good Parts by Douglas Crockford

## Common Issues

- [Common Javascript questions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Howto)

## Playgrounds

- JSFiddle
- Glitch
- JS Bin
- CodePen

## JSON - Javascript Object Notation

JSON is a lightweight data interchange format that is typically used to store
and send information between a client and a server.

- [Learn X in Y Minutes (JSON)](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/json/)
- [Video introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wI1CWzNtE-M)
- [JSON Website](https://www.json.org/json-en.html)
- [JSON Lint](https://jsonlint.com/) - An online JSON validator

Commit message:

Reorganize resource lists, add more to mp1 writeup and 2.1 slides

resources/javascript.md, after:

# JavaScript

**_What is JavaScript?_** JavaScript is a is a scripting language that enables
you to create dynamically updating content, control multimedia, animate images,
and pretty much everything else. [^mdn]

## Start Here

[The MDN Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/What_is_JavaScript)
has a good intro to JavaScript Follow with
[JavaScript language overview](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Language_Overview).

## Resources

- [Learn X in Y Minutes (JS)](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/javascript/) - a
  quick overview of the language all on one page
- [The Modern JavaScript Tutorial](https://javascript.info/) - a
  nicely-structured in-depth tutorial
- [JavaScript The Right Way](http://jstherightway.org/)- a guide intended to
  introduce new developers to JavaScript and help experienced developers learn
  more about its best practices.
- [Learn JavaScript by Example](https://www.learneroo.com/modules/64)
- [JavaScript Handbook](https://thevalleyofcode.com/js/)
- [JavaScript Garden](https://shamansir.github.io/JavaScript-Garden/) - a site
  documenting the "quirky" parts of the language

## Books

- [Eloquent JavaScript](http://eloquentjavascript.net/) by Marijn Haverbeke
- [JavaScript: The Definitive Guide](http://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-Definitive-Guide-Activate-Guides/dp/0596805527)
  by David Flanagan
- [Javascript: The Good Parts](http://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-Good-Parts-Douglas-Crockford/dp/0596517742)
  by Douglas Crockford
- [JavaScript Patterns](https://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-Patterns-Stoyan-Stefanov/dp/0596806752)
  by Stoyan Stefanov

See also [this list](https://jsbooks.revolunet.com/) of free JavaScript books.

## Quirks and FAQs

- [Common Javascript questions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Howto)
- [Scoping and Hoisting](http://www.adequatelygood.com/JavaScript-Scoping-and-Hoisting.html)

## Playgrounds

- JSFiddle
- Glitch
- JS Bin
- CodePen

[^mdn]:
    https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/What_is_JavaScript
